# Speaker Diarization Baseline

## About
Inspired by the previous session of DISPLACE challenge, we have launched the third DISPLACE-M 
challenge (https://displace2026.github.io/). The DISPLACE-M challenge provides a unique dataset 
of medical conversations between Community health workers and local residents in two Indian 
languages, Hindi and Kannada, collected in a wide geographic region covering different dialects. 
The dataset presents unique challenges such as spontaneous dialogue, foreground speech overlap, 
background speech, dialectal variation, and environmental noise in rural healthcare settings, 
making it an unprecedented resource for advancing low-resource, multi-dialect conversational AI. 

For speaker diarization we use the DiariZen model developed by Brno University of Technology, Speech@FIT, Czechia team, detailed in the paper 

> Han, Jiangyu, et al. "Leveraging self-supervised learning for speaker diarization." ICASSP 2025-2025 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2025. <https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10889475>

available at the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/BUTSpeechFIT/DiariZen)

## Track Information

This repository is the official baseline implementation for:

#### **Track 1 – Speaker Diarization (SD)**

**Task:**  
Segment multilingual and code-mixed healthcare conversations across diverse dialects and noisy environments based on the speaker.


## Entire directory structure
**NOTE:** You only need to create the `data_directory`, which will contain the data, and also the subsequent outputs and scores after making inference. The `data_directory/score` and `data_directory/gen_rttm` will be generted automatically

```
DisplaceM_SD
|
└──setup.sh
|
└──run.sh
|
└──config.toml
|
└──DiariZen/
|    └──inference_withConfigFile.py
|    |
|    └──<other files from DiariZen repo>
|
└──data_directory/
    |
    └──data/         
    |   |
    |   └──wav/
    |   |   └───<Record_ID>.wav
    |   │   
    |   └──rttm/
    |       └───<Record_ID>_SPEAKER.rttm 
    |
    └──score/
    |
    └──gen_rttm/

```

## Scoring
The performance is evaluated using [Diaration error rate (DER)](https://github.com/nryant/dscore) as the primary metric.

DER = False Alarm speech + Missed Speech + Speaker Confusion error

- speaker error -- percentage of scored time for which the wrong speaker id is assigned within a speech region
- false alarm speech -- percentage of scored time for which a nonspeech region is incorrectly marked as containing speech
- missed speech -- percentage of scored time for which a speech region is incorrectly marked as not containing speech

These scores are extracted from the original ``dscore`` logs, which are output to ``data_directory/score`` directory

## How to setup and run

### Clone the Repository
```
git clone https://github.com/displace2026/DISPLACE-2026-Baselines.git
cd DISPLACE-2026-Baselines/Track1_SD
```
    
### Dataset Download
Download `Track_1_SD_DevData_1` from the [Official Website](https://displace2026.github.io/) and place it in the `data_directory/` folder.
> **Note:** Access may require registration, agreement to the Challenge Terms and Conditions.

### Inference

Execute the following script comprising a slightly modified version of instructions provided in the GitHub repository of DiariZen. It will clone the DiariZen repository at the present working directory and setup the 'diarizen' environment.
```bash
chmod +x setup.sh
./setup.sh
```
**NOTE:** While running `setup.sh` you may encounter the following error \
$\color{red}\text{ERROR: Package 'diarizen' requires a different Python: 3.9.25 not in '>=3.10'}$ \
Do not worry and continue since we will be using the files from the `diarizen` folder inside `DiariZen`.

In the `run.sh` file, provide the path to the `data_directory` (i.e. `data_dir_path`) and the path to the `config.py` file accordingly (No need to make any changes if using the setup from the README). Run the following command to make inference
```bash
chmod +x run.sh
./run.sh
```
The per-file diariztion results generated by DiariZen will be available at `data_directory/gen_rttm` directory, and scoring results will be available in `data_directory/score` directory.
Any errors related to the inference will be available at `data_directory/inf_log.txt`, and scoring error will be available at `data_directory/score/final_score.err`.

# Expected Output format 
This is the expected output for the Hindi-DEV data. The final DER is the DER calculated combining all the files.
This is with `data_dir_path='/home/ashwini/DISPLACE/DiarizenBaseline/Hindi_DEV'`. 
```
Overriding with parsed config.
Loaded configuration: {'model': {'path': 'diarizen.models.eend.model_wavlm_conformer.Model', 'args': {'wavlm_src': 'wavlm_base_s80_md', 'wavlm_layer_num': 13, 'wavlm_feat_dim': 768, 'attention_in': 256, 'ffn_hidden': 1024, 'num_head': 4, 'num_layer': 4, 'dropout': 0.1, 'chunk_size': 16, 'use_posi': False, 'output_activate_function': False, 'selected_channel': 0}}, 'inference': {'args': {'seg_duration': 16, 'segmentation_step': 0.1, 'batch_size': 32, 'apply_median_filtering': True}}, 'clustering': {'args': {'method': 'AgglomerativeClustering', 'min_speakers': 2, 'max_speakers': 2, 'ahc_criterion': 'distance', 'ahc_threshold': 0.6, 'Fa': 0.07, 'Fb': 0.8, 'lda_dim': 128, 'max_iters': 20, 'min_cluster_size': 13}}}
self.embedding: /home/ashwini/.cache/huggingface/hub/models--pyannote--wespeaker-voxceleb-resnet34-LM/snapshots/837717ddb9ff5507820346191109dc79c958d614/pytorch_model.bin
Extracting segmentations.
Extracting Embeddings.
Clustering.
.
.
.
Extracting segmentations.
Extracting Embeddings.
Clustering.
************************************************

              OVERALL DER = 10.54                

************************************************
Error and results file present at /home/ashwini/DISPLACE/DiarizenBaseline/Hindi_DEV/score
```

NOTE: The following message appears for each file evalulated 
```
Extracting segmentations.
Extracting Embeddings.
Clustering.
```

