# The Third DISPLACE Challenge (2026) - DISPLACE-M 
### DIarization and Speech Processing for LAnguage understanding in Conversational Environments – Medical

**Official Website:** https://displace2026.github.io/

## About
Inspired by the previous session of DISPLACE challenge, we have launched the third DISPLACE-M 
challenge (https://displace2026.github.io/). The DISPLACE-M challenge aims to advance diarization 
and speech understanding technologies in real-world healthcare conversations. 
The DISPLACE-M challenge provides a unique dataset of medical conversations between Community 
health workers and local residents in two Indian languages, Hindi and Kannada, collected in a wide 
geographic region covering different dialects. The dataset presents unique challenges such as 
spontaneous dialogue, foreground speech overlap, background speech, dialectal variation, 
and environmental noise in rural healthcare settings, making it an unprecedented resource 
for advancing low-resource, multi-dialect conversational AI. 

## Track Information

This repository is the official baseline implementation for:

#### **Track 2 – Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR)**

**Task:**  
Transcribe multilingual and code-mixed healthcare conversations across diverse dialects and noisy environments.

---

## 1. Repository Structure (Baseline)
    
```text
Track2_ASR/
├── data/               # Dataset directory 
├── configs/            # Configuration files for evaluation
├── scripts/            # Evaluation scripts
├── src/                # Core Python source code
├── utils/              # Helper functions and shared utilities
├── requirements.txt    # Python dependencies
└── README.md           # Project documentation
```

## 2. Baseline Setup
Follow the steps below to set up and run the baseline system.

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
```
git clone https://github.com/displace2026/DISPLACE-2026-Baselines.git
cd DISPLACE-2026-Baselines/Track2_ASR
```
    
### Step 2: Dataset Download
Download `Track_2_ASR_DevData_1` from the [Official Website](https://displace2026.github.io/) and place it in the `data/` folder.
> **Note:** Access may require registration, agreement to the Challenge Terms and Conditions.

### Step 3: Model Path Setup
This baseline uses a pretrained multilingual ASR model from **AI4Bharat**.

**Model Details:**
- **Model Name:** IndicConformer-600M-Multi  
- **Repository:** ai4bharat/indic-conformer-600m-multilingual  
- **Model Link:** https://huggingface.co/ai4bharat/indic-conformer-600m-multilingual  
- **Architecture:** Multilingual Conformer-based Hybrid CTC + RNNT ASR  
- **Parameter Size:** 600M  

To access the above model, navigate to the model’s page on Hugging Face (HF), log in to your HF account, and follow the instructions provided on the HF model page.

Update your **Hugging Face access token** in the `hf_token` field within the configuration file located in the `configs/` directory.

### Step 4: Install Dependencies

```
conda create -n asr_env python=3.10 -y
conda activate asr_env
pip install torch torchvision --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu128
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 5: Inference

- Audio files are expected to be in **WAV format** (16 kHz recommended).
- The ASR baseline **requires Speaker Diarization (SD) outputs** as input for speech segment information.
- To run **Track 1 – Speaker Diarization (SD)**, update the `run.sh` as follows:
     - `data_dir_path ='../Track2_ASR/data/Track_2_ASR_DevData_1'`
     - `dir_containing_files='Hindi'`
     - `wav_dir='Audio'`
     - update path for `gen_rttm`
       
    (Adapt the first two filds as per the track and language accordingly)
- **Run the SD baseline** by following the instructions provided in the `Track1_SD` README.
- Update the `diarization_output_dir` field in the ASR configuration file to point to the **RTTM output directory generated by the SD system**.
- Once the dataset and model paths are correctly set, run ASR inference using the script below.
- Predicted transcripts will be saved in the `outputs/ASR` directory.

```
python scripts/asr.py
```

### Step 6: Evaluation Metrics

- The primary evaluation metrics for **Track 2 – ASR** are:
    - **Character Error Rate (CER)**
    - **Word Error Rate (WER)**
- To evaluate the **combined performance of Speaker Diarization (SD) and ASR**, we additionally report:
    - **tcpWER** (time-constrained permutation Word Error Rate)
- Output metric files are saved in the `outputs/metrics/` directory.


## 3. Baseline Results

The following results are reported using the provided baseline systems on the development set.

#### ASR-Only Performance
| Metric | Value |
|------|-------|
| Records Processed | 78 |
| Average CER | 0.159 |
| Average WER | 0.275 |

#### SD + ASR (End-to-End) Performance
| Metric | Value |
|------|-------|
| Records Processed | 78 |
| Average tcpWER | 0.295 |

> **Note:** These baseline results are intended as a reference point. Participants are encouraged to improve upon these 
numbers through model adaptation, enhanced diarization, and robust decoding strategies.
